Cyclic learning rates (and cyclic momentum, which usually goes hand-in-hand) is a learning rate scheduling technique for (1) faster training of a network and (2) a finer understanding of the optimal learning rate.What is Cyclical Learning Rate? A technique to set and change and tweak LR during training. This methodology aims to train neural network with a LR that changes in a cyclical way for each batch, instead of a non-cyclic LR that is either constant or changes on every epoch.The momentum algorithm accumulates an exponentially decaying moving average of past gradients and continues to move in their direction. — Page 296, Deep Learning, 2016. Momentum has the effect of dampening down the change in the gradient and, in turn, the step size with each new point in the search space.Neural network momentum is a simple technique that often improves both training speed and accuracy. Training a neural network is the process of finding values for the weights and biases so that for a given set of input values, the computed output values closely match the known, correct, target values.Step 1: find the upper LR. Using a vanilla CNN as an example : step 1 is to calculate the upper bound of the learning rate for your model. ... 
Step 2: CLR scheduler. Step 2 is to create a Cyclical learning schedule, which varies the learning rate between the lower and the upper bound. ... 
Step 3: wrap it. ... 
Step 4: train.The 1cycle policy gives very fast results when training complex models. It follows the Cyclical Learning Rate (CLR) to obtain faster training time with regularization effect but with a slight modification. Picking the right learning rate at different iterations helps model to converge quickly.Introduced in 1964 by Polyak, Momentum method is a technique that can accelerate gradient descent by taking accounts of previous gradients in the update rule at each iteration.Spiral learning is a teaching method based on the premise that a student learns more about a subject each time the topic is reviewed or encountered. The idea is that each time a student encounters the topic, the student expands their knowledge or improves their skill level. Also see Mastery Learning.Momentum [1] or SGD with momentum is method which helps accelerate gradients vectors in the right directions, thus leading to faster converging. It is one of the most popular optimization algorithms and many state-of-the-art models are trained using it.Applied to backpropagation, the concept of momentum is that previous changes in the weights should influence the current direction of movement in weight space.Momentum can accelerate training and learning rate schedules can help to converge the optimization process. Adaptive learning rates can accelerate training and alleviate some of the pressure of choosing a learning rate and learning rate schedule.terms of an equation, the momentum of an object is equal to the mass of the object times the velocity of the object. where m is the mass and v is the velocity. The equation illustrates that momentum is directly proportional to an object's mass and directly proportional to the object's velocity.AdamW is a stochastic optimization method that modifies the typical implementation of weight decay in Adam, by decoupling weight decay from the gradient update.As before, we update based on the amount by which our estimate differs from the observation. However, we also shrink the size of towards zero. That is why the method is sometimes called “weight decay”: given the penalty term alone, our optimization algorithm decays the weight at each step of training.The momentum technique modifies the Gradient Descent method by introducing a new variable V representing the velocity and a friction coefficient/smoothing constant β which helps in controlling the value of V and avoids overshooting the minima and simultaneously allowing faster convergence.Cosine Annealing is a type of learning rate schedule that has the effect of starting with a large learning rate that is relatively rapidly decreased to a minimum value before being increased rapidly again.Adam is a replacement optimization algorithm for stochastic gradient descent for training deep learning models. Adam combines the best properties of the AdaGrad and RMSProp algorithms to provide an optimization algorithm that can handle sparse gradients on noisy problems.by Adrian Rosebrock on July 29, 2019. In this tutorial, you will learn how to use Cyclical Learning Rates (CLR) and Keras to train your own neural networks. Using Cyclical Learning Rates you can dramatically reduce the number of experiments required to tune and find an optimal learning rate for your model.curve on a plane that winds around a fixed center point at a continuously increasing or decreasing distance from the point. a three-dimensional curve that turns around an axis at a constant or continuously varying distance while moving parallel to the axis; a helix.been enjoying several good weeks. Some of that is to be expected at this time of year. I’m a big fan of summer, complete with long hours of daylight, soaring temps, and abundant flora and fauna everywhere I look. By contrast, I can get a little grim and enervated for a few weeks on either side of the winter solstice.

This is far from unique to me. Most people are familiar with the notion of circadian rhythms, cycles based on a day, but circannual rhythms are also a known phenomenon. Circa-monthly, too (I don’t know a tidier term for that one).

Such cycling goes well beyond the biological. Put humans together in a society, and they start playing off of one another to create other cycles. Bull-and-bear stock markets. Larger-scale economic upturns and downturns. Political sentiment. An individual immersed in all of these cycles might be hard-pressed to identify which of them is having what effect on his subjective reality. One might even subscribe to – or invent – unverifiable cyclic events in a search for explanation, if not predictability (astrology, anyone?).

So, as I imagine most people do, I perceive cycles in my life. Mood, energy-level, motivation. Spates of good/bad news, even “luck,” as unscientific as such a thing seems to be for a physician to talk about. As a human, being a pattern-recognition machine, I probably selectively notice and overestimate things that mesh with whatever cyclic phase I’m in. If I’m in a good mood and a dozen random events come my way, I might perceive more of them to be positive than I otherwise would…and/or I might be less inclined to notice unhappier stuff.

(Lest it need saying: I’m not talking about pathological, unstable stuff like cyclothymia here. Any readers experiencing ego-dystonic cycling should probably be seeking individualized treatment from a mental health professional rather than hoping for direction from online blogs.)

I’ve come to find it worth my while to recognize my cycles, however subjective they may be, and when possible to adjust my behavior to take advantage of them. Or, to minimize whatever negative impact they might otherwise have.

An analogy: You’re pushing a kid on a swing-set. The swing is cycling between forward and backward arcs. If you want to make it go higher, you give it a push when the momentum of the cycle is in your favor—that is, the kid is moving forward, away from you. Pushing against the momentum, when he’s coming back towards you, will be disruptive, taking away from his overall arc (and being pretty jarring to the kid).

Similarly, if I can tell I’m on an upswing—good mood, high energy, things seeming to be going my way—I’ve got a better chance of good results when taking on tasks: getting chores done, solving problems, even writing columns like this one. If I’m “not feeling it,” I’m much better off leaving things for later on than forcing myself to plow ahead.

Sometimes that’s not an option, for instance if I’m on a schedule—a meeting or a deadline later today that can’t be pushed back without consequence. Having to “power through” when I’m in a downturn, even if absolutely necessary, can be unpleasant, feeling an awful lot more effort-intensive. Further, when looking back on things later on, it can be painfully obvious to me that things didn’t go as well as they might have. My performance in the meeting, or the quality of whatever I turned in for the deadline, was a middling B- instead of an A+.

There are some ways to prevent this from happening. Regarding deadlines, for instance, I like to get things done comfortably before they are due. In addition to keeping the pressure off, it gives me more chances to work on projects when I am cycling favorably. If my due-date is Friday and that turns out to be a lousy day, but I only got working on the task that morning, I’ve got no options. But, if I start looking to get it done at the outset of the week, and recognize that Tuesday or Thursday are turning out to be good days for me, I can declare either of them to be “soft” deadlines on the fly.

Of course, we don’t always have such a luxury of prep-time to “choose our window” for performance. That meeting scheduled for this afternoon, for instance, or the dozens of cases on your worklist, are stationary, pressing concerns. Sometimes there’s nothing for it but to grab an extra cup of coffee in the hope of goosing yourself into a brief, artificial upswing (and, truth be told, sometimes such “fake it till you make it” maneuvers actually work, reversing a downward cycle-phase).

A little over two years ago in this column, I described how I participated in a business-venture that almost succeeded. One of the ways I knew it had a good chance was that, initially, it felt like everything about it was flowing along easily, practically running itself without a hint of friction or resistance. My partners and I, our allies, even the market-sector we were pursuing, were all in a good place. We had momentum, and it was carrying us forward almost with a sense of guaranteed success, like it was meant to happen.

As months went by, however, that momentum 
